Hello and welcome back to the course on power be-I.
In today's tutorial we're going to create another element that is going to go on to our final dashboard.
Yes I know it's getting quite heavy is getting quite saturated or the dashboard is going to be quite
saturated with information and is going to be exciting.
So today we're creating a tree map.
So let's call this or we'll call this job classification.
So that's what we're portraying and the type of visualization we're going to be achieved.
And this is click tree map or here so Team-Up is kind of like a pie chart but it's just presented in
different ways.
So basically you can switch between tree map and pie chart very easily.
It's it's the same thing.
So we've got some categories and then a numeric value that tells you the size of each category is just
a different way of presenting information.
So let's go ahead and create our tree map.
We're going to use job classification as our category and we're going to use once again count of custom
ID as our value.
So there you go.
And as you can see as you resize the tree map it automatically adjusts and that's pretty much it.
So I'll show you that I can change to a pie chart very easily and seamlessly if I saw that I have a
pie chart so you can see right away that white collar workers are about 1/2 percent of our total.
In fact let's just change this to a quick calc right away will change just 2 percent of grand total.
And then here are actually we won't we won't go there there for now.
If you just look at the tool tip you'll see is forty eight point seven percent.
If I go back to the tree map it's less evident from here that it is about 50 percent and that is why
these two different types of resolutions exist so even though the pie chart can tell you something.
Some things like for instance that this is about 50 percent you can tell right away.
These are about a quarter each.
You can't really tell that from here as easily.
But at the same time a trauma carries either you know it has its own other advantages.
For example when you have more different categories a pie chart gets easily overwhelmed so after for
example four or five or six different categories a pie chart becomes very cluttered whereas a tree map
it maintains its consistency and it really helps you see those important elements those larger groups
and then you can tell.
Also the less significant group so probably a true up is better when you have more categories and a
pie chart is better when you have less categories.
That's just a rule of thumb it really depends on you and your personal preferences what you want to
show and which kind of this Alsatians you want to use.
All right so here we've got the information all we need to do is go to our formatting.
And here you might want to change the colors a little bit so that see what data colors we've got.
So it's sort of white collar workers white collar workers you might want to make them sort of blue collar
workers blue collar workers it's pretty straightforward let's make them blue.
Right.
So maybe it's just a different blue so that we don't get confused with the blue that we're using for
gender right.
We actually that might be the same blue.
This is like a darker blue.
Only thing is I don't really marry a big fan of these neon colors so that should be OK.
White collar workers.
Maybe we can use some other color.
Let's see what happens if we use.
No that's too too white.
And plus you can already see the text.
So sometimes you could just do the opposite you could do.
You could do like a black and because the text is white people would understand.
Or maybe you could use a light gray as as a kind of a dark or white option and then other.
I don't think red is a good option because we can get confused with the red that we are using for gender
and here what color could we use for other.
There are tricky ones so maybe something like a brown type of color that's an orange it's very hard
always picking here.
But the good news is if you have the hex code you can just enjoy it.
And that way you won't have to pick out the car.
So yeah I'll leave it like that but really that's not the best option that we have here.
OK.
Maybe something like that so why is it blue and other.
And finally in the colors
not the colors the categories and labels so going to switch the data labels on here and display.
So we want to keep it like that but zero decimal points and click OK.
So there we go so we've got a 49 and 26 and 25 percent.
And finally we can just keep it as it is and then we'll be ready to use it.
So what we can do is we can resize it and resize it you'll see that everything adjust accordingly.
So both not just the boxes but also the labels move around so everything is working fine.
All right.
So that was Outremer up and we are nearly ready.
We're actually ready to proceed to creating our final business intelligence report but we'll start doing
that in the next tutorial and look for you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.